---
author: Jen Carlson
date: Mar 8, 2016 10:39 am
title: Lena Dunham Will Not Be Retouched: "If That Means No More Magazine Covers, So Be It"
---

	
										<p>Last week, Dunham Instagrammed a photo of a magazine featuring her on the cover. Being fairly certain she was not looking at her body in its true form, she wrote: &quot;I am genuinely honored to be on your cover... BUT this is NOT what my body has ever looked like or will ever look like&#x2014;the magazine has done more than the average photoshop. So if you&apos;re into what I do, why not be honest with your readers?&quot;</p>

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-captioned="" data-instgrm-version="6" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50.0% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAAGFBMVEUiIiI9PT0eHh4gIB4hIBkcHBwcHBwcHBydr+JQAAAACHRSTlMABA4YHyQsM5jtaMwAAADfSURBVDjL7ZVBEgMhCAQBAf//42xcNbpAqakcM0ftUmFAAIBE81IqBJdS3lS6zs3bIpB9WED3YYXFPmHRfT8sgyrCP1x8uEUxLMzNWElFOYCV6mHWWwMzdPEKHlhLw7NWJqkHc4uIZphavDzA2JPzUDsBZziNae2S6owH8xPmX8G7zzgKEOPUoYHvGz1TBCxMkd3kwNVbU0gKHkx+iZILf77IofhrY1nYFnB/lQPb79drWOyJVa/DAvg9B/rLB4cC+Nqgdz/TvBbBnr6GBReqn/nRmDgaQEej7WhonozjF+Y2I/fZou/qAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div> <p style=" margin:8px 0 0 0; padding:0 4px;"> <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20160801193008/https://www.instagram.com/p/BCZE4J3i1Dl/" style=" color:#000; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none; word-wrap:break-word;" target="_blank">Oh hello El Pais! I am genuinely honored to be on your cover and so happy you licensed a pic by @ruvenafanador, who always makes me feel gorgeous. BUT this is NOT what my body has ever looked like or will ever look like- the magazine has done more than the average photoshop. So if you&apos;re into what I do, why not be honest with your readers? Much love, Lena. credit to @peguerillo_ for this &#x1F4F8; of a &#x1F4F8;</a></p> <p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">A photo posted by Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2016-03-01T01:22:40+00:00">Feb 29, 2016 at 5:22pm PST</time></p></div></blockquote>
<script async defer src="//web.archive.org/web/20160801193008js_/http://platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>
<p></p><p>
The magazine, called <em>Tentaciones</em>, sent an uncropped image, to which Dunham responded, &quot;Thank you for sending the uncropped image (note to the confused: not unretouched, uncropped!) I look great. But it&apos;s a weird feeling to see a photo and not know if it&apos;s your own body anymore (and I&apos;m pretty sure that will never be my thigh width but I honestly can&apos;t tell what&apos;s been slimmed and what hasn&apos;t.) I&apos;m not blaming anyone (y&apos;know, except society at large.) I have a long and complicated history with retouching. I wanna live in this wild world and play the game and get my work seen, and I also want to be honest about who I am and what I stand for.&quot; You can read her <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20160801193008/https://www.instagram.com/p/BCat8Cui1Hp/?taken-by=lenadunham&amp;hl=en">full response here</a>, but she ended on a note that hinted at change&#x2014;&quot;Time to get to the bottom of this in a bigger way.&quot;

</p><p>Dunham&apos;s work has too often been overshadowed by things like this&#x2014;there is a layer of noise surrounding it that <em>has nothing to do with it</em>. From &quot;Your parents are famous artists!&quot; to other totally unoriginal, clueless and much more vitriolic statements written by awful humans who live in the comments section. (For more on that you can <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20160801193008/http://gothamist.com/2015/01/12/to_all_the_girls.php">click here</a>.) The uglier side of all this is the endless commentary on <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20160801193008/http://gothamist.com/2014/01/16/lena_dunham_body_image_interview.php">Dunham&apos;s body</a>. This all hit a fever pitch when in 2014 when <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20160801193008/http://gothamist.com/2014/01/17/lena_dunham_responds_to_jezebels_bo.php">Jezebel offered a $10,000 bounty</a> for unretouched photos from her <em>Vogue</em> shoot. Dunham responded to that (again), the aforementioned <em>Tentaciones</em> cover, and retouching in general in a piece today for her <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20160801193008/http://www.lennyletter.com/">Lenny newsletter</a>. It reads, in part: </p>

<blockquote>When I landed a <em>Vogue</em> cover in 2014, I was thrilled. The shoot was a fantasy, and I felt, perhaps for the first time ever, like a glamorous adult with a body worth wanting. 

<p>So when Jezebel decreed it a Photoshopping atrocity and offered a $10,000 bounty for anyone who could get them the raw photos, I was no less than heartbroken. That was partly because my college self had loved Jezebel for this very trait, a desire to topple the body-image industrial complex with a wink and a cackle. It was and it remains an admirable goal.</p>

<p>But I also asked, &#x201C;Why me?&#x201D; All these other actresses and models get to enjoy their subtly perfected fashion spreads without comment. Was I being punished for being different, for having an inherently political body? Was I being called out on the chasm between the goals of my television show and the reality of posing in Vogue in a fancy dress and a support garment? Those were fair lines of inquiry for Jezebel, but it still felt like having the stuffing ripped from my bra at the seventh-grade dance. Would I ever get the chance to just be beautiful, no questions asked?</p>

<p>But something snapped when I saw that Spanish cover. Maybe it was the feeling of barely recognizing myself and then being told it was 100 percent me but knowing it probably wasn&#x2019;t and studying the picture closely for clues. Maybe it was realizing that was an image I had at some point seen, approved, and most likely loved. Maybe it was the fact that I no longer understand what my own thighs look like. But I knew that I was done.</p>

<p>Not done with getting my picture taken (once an insufferable ham, always an insufferable ham) but done with allowing images that retouch and reconfigure my face and body to be released into the world. The gap between what I believe and what I allow to be done to my image has to close now. If that means no more fashion-magazine covers, so be it. I respect the people who create those magazines and the job they have to do. I thank them for letting me make a few appearances and for making me feel gorgeous along the way. But I bid farewell to an era when my body was fair game.</p></blockquote>Thank you, Lena Dunham.<p></p>					
										
									
				